On average, parents drop off and pick up their children from school about 5 times a week. With a student population of about 500, and considering that over 50% are day girls, there are approximately 200 different cars emitting substantial amount of CO2 gases each week on their commute to school. These emissions not only contribute to air pollution but also quicken the rate of climate change as they contribute to the depletion of the Earth’s ozone layer and are greenhouse gases. It is essential that more sustainable alternatives are adopted within schools to reduce the impact it has on the environment. 

My project, ‘School Run Express’ aims to become the alternative parents can use help reduce their carbon footprint. A school survey found that approximately 70% of day girls live within close proximity to one another, each taking essentially the same route to school. Taking into consideration the geographical proximity, I aim to create a new carpooling system for parents. This system not only aims to reduce the number of cars on the road, but also lessen the burden on parents and encourage a sense of community within the school.

The main clients would be parents within the school who live close together and do not currently carpool. Though, I plan to primarily use teachers who have children in the school, as communication will be much easier and accessible. This is due to the fact that there is normally a rush during morning drop offs and afternoon pickups, so communication is challenging with clients outside the school settings.

School Run Express would allow parents to decide if they would like to pick up other children or have their child picked up. The platform will then assign children to a car and find a suitable route the parent picking up other children should take to ensure timely arrivals to school. This would be sent to all parents through email with additional information like the name, phone number and email of the parent picking up the other children for parents who picked the second option. Additionally, it will quantify the environmental impact of using the platform by calculating the amount of CO2 emissions saved compared to individual trips. This aims to raise awareness as well as encourage more parents to partake in carpooling.
